

# Project details
This project functions as a REST API server to connect to a MySQL database from Node.js using Sequelize, which has a user module with its routes. More modules with routes can be added. 

| |Version |
|----------------|-------------------------------|
|NPM |`11.5.2` |
|Node.js |`22.14.0`|
|Mysql ||  
|Sequelize||  

## Important note  
If you want to add a new route, you must take the following into account:

- You must have a database created on the server, either local or external. In addition, you must change the database connection in the `config/config.json` file. This file is automatically generated when you start sequelize in the project.
- You must add a new sequelize model with the command `sequelize model:create --name user --attributes name:string,last_name:string,email:string,phone:string`. The attributes to be used are added in the **key:value** format separated by a comma. In this case, **user** is an example; you can change this name to another one you need to use.
- You must add a controller to the `src/controllers` folder to use the methods as routes in their respective files. You can follow the example of the file created in the `src/controller/users.js` repository, which contains a CRUD example and is used as a route in its respective `src/routes/users.js` file.
- Create a js file in the `src/routes` folder to assign the methods created in the controller created in the previous step as REST API routes. You can follow the example of the file created in the repository `src/routes/users.js`.
- After creating the routes file and assigning the methods, this file must be assigned as a module in `src/routes/index` in the **generate** method.    

## Instructions
To start this project on a local server, follow the instructions below.

- Clone the project, either with the command git clone `https://github.com/dev-shelvin-batista/node_express_mysql.git` or using a GitHub graphical tool.
- You must have a database created on the server, either local or external. In addition, you must change the database connection in the `config/config.json` file. This file is automatically generated when you start sequelize in the project.
- After cloning the repository, install the node dependencies using the command `npm install` inside the `node_express_mysql` project folder. If an error occurs, add the --force option.
- This project already has a model and migration created with sequelize, so you need to run the migration to get the table structure in the database with the command `sequelize db:migrate`. Instructions for creating a model, migration, and controller can be found in the section **Important note** . 
- If an error occurs, ensure that the database has been created and that the connection details are correctly configured in the `config/config.json` file.
- Run the command `npm run start` to start the server. By default, the url `http://localhost:4000` is used.
- This project has a file called `Collection_Test.postman_collection.json` that contains a collection with the REST API routes configured for testing after successfully starting the project as a server.